Let me get things cranked up here. Yeah. What do you want to tell me? What you're going to ask me? Yeah. It makes no difference, though. Okay. Basically,
how long have you been living in Cross Plains? I've been living in Cross Plains. I've lived here since 1922. That would be about, good lord, that's a while, isn't it? Yeah. I was a boy here, and... Went to college and came
back, took over the newspaper. Got out of college one day and took over the newspaper and hit the next. Been here all the while. I retired the newspaper about eight or nine years ago. When did you first meet Mr. Howard?
When did I first meet him? Well, as a boy, I knew him here. When he was a boy, Howard would be about, Howard's about four or five years older than I am. Four years, I guess. I guess he'd be about, I'm 70 years old. I remember it
would be about 74 or 5 now, I think. Okay. I could check that out for you, but possibly you've got that information at hand. Yes. When did you... I knew him at...
I started at the high school. Let's see. I came in here, moved here from a nearby town and entered high school as about a sophomore. And... In those days, we only had 10 grades here, and they were not affiliated. And
Howard went down to Brownwood to finish his high school work in order to be qualified, you know, to enter college.
When you came back to Cross Plains after going to college and you started over the newspaper— That was in July. I took over the newspaper in July, 1930. Howard was here at the time. he was a young man, some, uh, I was 20
years old. Howard must've been 24 or five. Uh, he was writing for a bunch of pulp magazines, just getting started. And, uh, very few people remember the names of those magazines, but it was storm street and Smith. They
published a number of magazines like weird tales. Uh, uh, weird tales was one of them, I believe. And, uh, boxing and the West, the Wild West, and a whole lot of stuff like that. He mainly wrote for Weird Tales, but he also
occasionally wrote for either Ring or something, occasionally wrote for a boxing magazine, too. Yeah, we were talking to Ms. Laughlin. She said sometimes he would go down the streets there shadowboxing and sort of
doing a little... Yeah, I imagine that's more or less exaggerated. He was a little on the... a little on the odd side. He wasn't intimate with very many people. He was rather aloof. But he was a big, robust man. To me, he
was a combination of Edgar Allan Poe and Jack London, if you can imagine that two together. Yeah, he had those books in his library, so I can imagine that. Well, he was virile, robust, like Jack London. He was... Imagine
it's Tim. Imagine it's Tim. Imagine it's Tim like Poe. And once he wrote a few poems, maybe you're familiar with the one called The Temptress, The Temptor. He wrote a very good, it reminds you of Poe's Raven, something,
the meter of it is something like that. In that he compares the Temptor as a beautiful maiden who lures him and her name is Suicide. Yeah, I do believe I have read that one. Yeah, I'm sure you've read it. Were very many
people in Cross Plains aware that Howard was a writer? Oh, they all knew it. I published it in the newspaper. You know, every once in a while I'd say Robert Howard had a story this week and Weird Tales or some of those pulp
magazines. Yeah, they knew it. Yeah, yeah. I take it, being a small town, I guess just about everybody knew everything else. Oh, yeah, that's right. And his daddy was a doctor here, a country doctor, general
practitioner, well thought of, very popular. And his father was proud of the fact that his son was a gifted writer. He talked about it. Yeah.
Well, let's see. I'm about to run through my gambit of questions here. Is there anything... Any particular stories you know about Mr. Howard being that you were a newspaper man and everything? He might have had some
exploits out there. I remember the morning he killed himself very well. I
can't think just what it was. I know it was a warm season of the year. It must have been summer. But anyway, early in the summer, 10 or 11 o'clock in the morning, I heard on the street that Robert Howard had just shot
himself. I immediately jumped in my car and ran down there and got down there. A few neighbors had gathered. It wasn't generally known over the town, but the old justice of the peace was standing there on the gallery,
the front porch. When I walked up, he called me and said, Come here, Jack. I stepped up there and he took me into the bedroom. He pointed to an old Underwood typewriter who had four lines written on it there. When he had
been told that his mother wouldn't live throughout the day, he went to this typewriter, wrote these four lines, walked outside, sat down in his car and shot his head off. This old JP asked me what these four lines meant.
They said, I'm sure you've read them all flat all done, so lift me on the pyre. The feast is over, the lamps expire.
Yeah, we had read that. I'm sure you've read that. To me, I've been told since then by Sprague de Kemp that the lines are not entirely original, but they were certainly original as far as I'd ever heard or anybody else
I've ever talked to except Sprague de Kemp. I imagine that's... was Howard's way of putting... Yeah, that was his, that was his valedictory. Yeah. His finale.
Well, Mr. Scott, I can't think of anything else. Can you think of any other, uh, bold thing? I'll tell you, you got a fella there in Odessa. I'll tell you, a young man there in Odessa, you can pick up on the telephone and
call him and know him. His name is J. Brown, B-A-U-M, bomb. He's a man, he's 70 years old, he's just my age, but, uh, As a boy, he knew Robert Howard. His name was J. Baum? J. Brown. B-R-O-W-N-E. Brown Baum. B-A-U-M. His son
is a... His son is a loan officer in one of the federal... One of the... One of the... I don't know which one. Yeah, I'll see if I can track him down, too. Well... We, uh, talked with, uh, Charlotte Laughlin and some other
people in Brownwood who were doing some research, uh, on Howard. Have you talked to C.S. Lawrence? Uh, no sir, we talked to, uh, Jack Scott. Yeah, I know Jack. There in Cross Plains, and he referred us to, uh, you and your
brother. And, uh, what we're mainly just looking for are just some, uh, O's and some interesting stories or any reminisces you might have about Mr. Howard? Well, yes, I'd be glad to tell you what I know about him. I'll
try to think of some things that happened. He was
an unusual fellow, I know that. Have you read some of his stories? Yes, I have. What type of person was he? Well, he was kind of a loner. And, uh, I'll just recount one. I don't think he ever went for the girl at all. But he
wrote some pretty outstanding stories.
Well, as I was saying, I recall some of the stories he wrote when he was in high school, and they were really outstanding, but he never did He really wasn't in our group. He was kind of an outsider, yet he was readily
accepted. But I remember one time we were having a party, and I was running a little old rental store there in Cross Plains, and we were having a party upstairs. And Robert came, and we were drinking some beer, chalk beer
or something. That was way back before prohibition, you know. And I know he got very upset about it. He got a little bit tight. And he said that he'd kill anybody that interfered with his hands. If his hands ever got
damaged by somebody else, that he'd kill them.
Hello? Yes, sir. And that was just kind of the kind of fellow he was, kind of morose.
And he thought he had a real bright future in the head of him as a writer.
And I don't think I ever saw him after that until I heard he had, I believe he committed suicide, didn't he? Yes, sir, he did. In 1936. I knew his father real well. I didn't know his mother, but I know he was an only child, I
believe.
And he never did enter into any of our activities very much as I remember. So I don't really know what I could just say to you that would help you. Well, what you've already told us is quite a bit of help. Why do you suppose he
was such a loner, being from such a small town and usually everybody does things so much together in a small town? I don't know. I don't know. He just... He could have been a great author, I think. He had a... I don't
remember even what kind of grades he made academically. I know I
took an idea he had for a story and tried to write a theme on it, and he'd already turned the theme in. And I got in big trouble there, as you know, trying to steal his ideas. And that kind of, I never did try that anymore
again. But I know he could tell a story that wasn't really, this was something about a bear who got up in the attic or something and broke through and disturbed some poker players. But then I really can't tell you very
much about Robert. Come to think of it, there's another writer, C.S. Boyles. I don't know whether you ever heard of him or not. Uh, no sir. Jack Scott didn't mention CS? No, I don't believe so, no. What did Jack tell you
about him? Uh, mostly, uh, he had worked a little bit for Jack on the newspaper, and, uh, Jack talked about what type of person he was, really. Uh, vigorous man, although he kept to himself quite a bit. I wish I could
recall more about that party, but I know he scared the hell out of all of us because he got real excited and thought we was trying to damage his riding career or something by getting him full of beer. I don't recall exactly
why, but anyway, he said he'd kill anybody that uh, damaged his hands in any way. Uh, it seemed like I remember that pretty vividly. I don't know, maybe, maybe something happened there with his hands. Maybe we got in a,
uh, a racing match or something. I don't know. But anyway, he, uh, he wanted to riot with his hands.
That's very interesting. You don't happen to riot like any other things you might have done with Howard back when you were living in Crosswood? Well, like I say, he wasn't in our group. We went fishing, and we went
swimming in the bow there, and we hunted quail, but he was never one of us. And how he happened to be in this deal, I don't know. I don't think he ever had a date with a girl. He was a nice-looking guy. very presentable and
tall and well made.
And even if I talk to you, I can't really tell you anything much that I remember about him, except that I remember him being a very outstanding, that he would have been a great writer, I think. Listen, what you've told me
so far has been quite helpful. We're putting together just bits and pieces of people who did know him, along with some research that some other people have done. And
I'd like to go ahead and put your recollections of that party and some of the other things you said into our program. Well, that's authentic, but I can't quite recall the details of what happened to his hands. Maybe we
were arm wrestling or something. I don't know. But he got very uptight about what might happen to him. one of his hands or his arms or something. I guess that was the only time he ever had a drink of beer in his life.
Well, I think so. He was an only child, I know that. I don't know how close he was with his mother, but I don't think his father had anything to do with it. It was my kind of feeling, I don't know.
Dr. Howard was a real fine man, though. I don't know how close they were together, but I think that he worshipped his mother, was my impression in those years.
I don't know whether she died first or not. Do you? Aye. She had gone into a coma and was not expected to recover. Oh. Well, now that's the reason for the suicide. because he worshipped her. I know I can almost be sure of
that, that he worshipped his mother.
And I know that her condition affects him very much.
And I know that he was real afraid that something wouldn't happen that he couldn't write anymore. whether it was in his mind or whether it was in his fear that something would happen to his hands. But that's the incident
I recall more vividly than anything else, and I've often thought of it. I certainly do appreciate your talking with me. And I believe I was the one that I believe that he could have strangled me to death. I don't recall.
like his anger was toward me.
But I know he frightened the hell out of me. He was a very big and strong fellow. Yes, very strong. Could have twisted your neck off. Much like the heroes that he wrote about.
If you give me your address, I'll send you a release form. What that does is simply you give us permission to use what I've been taping. Oh, well, that doesn't matter to me. I don't care whether you use it or not. I'm just
trying to be honest with you. I have no hold on it. You can quote me any way you want to. As I say, it's been a long time ago, but those are my recollections, and I've often thought of them. It made a real strong impression on
me. that I was in real danger there. Well, fortunately, you made it through it. Other things have happened to me that I guess almost is dangerous, but then anyway, that's what I remember about Robert. Through all that
with no problems, apparently, and no attachments that I know of to anybody except